Raspberry pi USB serial gadget for Niles 

This document is under construction and will probably change at least weekly.  

What you'll need to complete this project:

  Raspberry pi Zero W
  Micro SD card
  Power supply with Micro USB connector 
  HDMI monitor
  HDMI to HDMI Mini adapter cable (the pi zero uses an HDMI mini connector, not a micro connector)
  USB Keyboard/mouse
  Computer running windows that will be used to create the raspbian lite image on the micro sd card
       Note:  This project requires the use of rpi-imager and filezilla.  Both packages will need to 
       be installed on the Windows machine prior to the raspian lite build
  USB to Micro USB data cable (make sure you're using a data cable not a charging cable)
  SD or micro SD to USB adapter (if the pc doesn't already have a built-in sd card reader)
  Network access for both the PC and pi Zero W (Note that the pi zero w needs wireless access)
  
Using the Windows PC, install raspbian buster lite on a micro sd card
Download the serial_c and serial_c.service files from this repository on github 
Configure the raspberry pi hardware for local login (power supply, local monitor, keyboard, and mouse)
Insert the card into the raspberry pi zero w and apply power
Log in using pi as the account and raspberry as the password
Enter the following command:  sudo raspi-config
Go to Interfacing Options
Navigate to and select SSH
Choose Yes
Select OK
Enable Wireless
Disable the serial terminal
Select Finish
Reboot the pi zero w.
On the Windows PC, open filezilla and connect to the pi zero using raspberry.local
Copy the serial_c file to the /home/pi directory
Copy the serial_c.service file to the /etc/systemd/system directory
Log into the pi zero w and change directory to /boot
Open the config.txt file with the following command:  sudo nano config.txt
Add the following line at the end of the file:  dtoverlay=dwc2
Save and exit the file.
Open the cmdline.txt file with the following command:  sudo nano cmdline.txt
Add a space and then the following text after  “rootwait” :   modules-load=dwc2,g_serial
Compile the serial_c.c program using the following command:  sudo gcc serial_c.c -o serial_c
At the command line, enter the following command:  sudo chmod 755 serial_c
At the command line, enter the following command:  sudo systemctl enable serial_c.service
Verify that it is active by entering the following command:  sudo systemctl status serial_c.service
Shut down the pi zero with the following command:  shutdown –h now
  Note that this is a point of no return.  Once you have shutdown, a reboot will bring the USB port
  on the pi zero w up as a gadget port (like a USB keyboard or printer) and your keyboard and 
  mouse will no longer work.  Make sure that everything is good before you shut down, and remember, 
  you can always start from the beginning again if it isn't.
Disconnect the power supply, local display, keyboard, and mouse.
Connect the pi zero to the Windows computer using a USB to Micro USB data cable (not a charging cable).  Make sure to plug it into the USB 
  connector on the pi zero and not the power connector (they are labeled.)
Verify that the computer recognizes the pi zero and assigns it a serial port.
  You can do that by going to Device Manager->Ports (COM & LPT) and looking for USB Serial Device (COMx) where x is usually 4.
Click on the serial port to select it, go to Port Settings, and set the baud rate to 38400.  Note that the Niles Intellifile 3 software uses that baud rate.
Open the Intellifile 3 software and verify that you now have authorization to use it.

